#summary Release notes (enhancements, bug fixes, etc)
#labels Featured,Releasenotes

= Release Notes =

=== 1.2 - December 31st, 2009 ===
  * Added ability to supply a list of includes/excludes for multiple file replacement. This is in the standard Ant format (Issue 5).
  * Added ability to list regular expression flags (from the Java Pattern class). For special handling of token matching (Issue 21).

=== 1.1 - November 19th, 2009 ===
  * *groupId changed to com.google.code.maven-replacer-plugin to comply with standard Maven repository which will enable this plugin to be uploaded to the main repo.* (Issue 17)
  * Added ability to supply a tokenValueMap (Issue 18). A tokenValueMap is a supplied file which contains a list of tokens and their respective values to replace with. This allows a file to have different tokens replaced with different values in a single execution. This feature is useful if your file contains several different properties to be replaced.
  * Now supports suppling a file containing the token to match against (Issue 12). This is useful when the token is long or should not be shown in your project pom.
  * Now supports suppling a file containing the value to replace the token with (Issue 12). This is useful when the value is long or should not be shown in your project pom.
  * Fixed Issue 16
  * Fixed Issue 13

=== 1.0.3 - October 3rd, 2009 ===
  * Value is no longer required. If no value is supplied, the token is removed entirely  (Issue 10).
  * Fixed inability to replace tokens spanning more than one line (Issue 10).

=== 1.0.2 - September 5th, 2009 ===
  * When using the outputFile parameter, if the base path does not exist it will be created (Issue 9).

=== 1.0.1 - August 15th, 2009 ===
  * Added optional {{{<regex>[true, false]</regex>}}} parameter. Set to true when token contains a regular expression. Set to false if you do not want regular expressions considered within a token. (If not supplied, regex will be considered by default) (Issue 8).
  * Added optional {{{<outputFile>some file</outputFile>}}} parameter. The modified file contents are written to this file if specified. (If not supplied, replace will overwrite input file) (Issue 7).

=== 1.0.0 - July 13th, 2009 ===
  * Added optional ability to skip replacement task if input file not found so it does not break the build. (Issue 4).

=== 0.0.9 - March 30th, 2009 ===
  * Fixed bug where files that were replaced did not preserve line feeds. (Issue 1).

=== 0.0.8 - March 6th, 2009 ===
  * First public release.